Alright, it's time to create our first module, the common module what we're going to do is move the necessary files
that are currently elsewhere.
Now Java project into that module and then we're going to work on the first module descriptor.
so back in IntelliJ.
Now firstly you may notice that I've got a different color IDE here and this is because I've now switched
over to using IntelliJ IDE community edition.
Now for most of this cause I've been using the Ultimate Edition and some times where there's been
a change, I've tried to indicate that the functionality is slightly different with the Ultimate Edition but here
I think it's important to use the Community Edition and that's because the simple sort of renaming
or refactoring pieces of functionality in the Ultimate Edition where it doesn't happen in the community edition.
And I think it's going to make a different and be confusing.
Sorry, given that my students are probably using the community edition.
I've decided to switch for the rest of this section to the community edition of intelliJ in case
you're wondering why the color changes and what I'm trying to do is make it a white background so it's very clear
that I'm using the community edition.
So first thing we need to do now is change the project structure as we've discussed before we have to
create the module in the root folder.
Now confusingly in intelliJ, here's also a concept of a module but that's got nothing to do with
the JDK 9 module that's an intelligent module when they were there prior.
You probably say no.
In fact we can just right click the project there an option to open module settings.
Well that's the concept of a Intelligence module not the Java 9 module.
So what intellJ have done, the people behind intelliJ Jetbrains they decided that one intelligent
module will represent one java 9 module then that way we need to add the one module descriptor to
that modules.
So once you've done this a few times I think it would be pretty straightforward.
So let's go ahead and create this module with intelliJ.
So what we're going to do is come up to a file, select new and select module.
You can say this has brought up a dialog similar to the dialog you see when creating a new project.
So we have to select Java on the left hand side if it's not already selected.
Now the module I've hit does need to be the JDK 9,
in this case you can see it's project SDK 9 and the option select are if by chance is not.
And it should be automatically selected from two videos ago when we imported the project and ran it on
JDK 8 and then JDK 9.
So the last run of I'm JDK 9 so I should be seeing there in that area in that state anyway.
But if not, just select it, click on next but not need any additional frameworks and the module name beginning of
the academy dot learn programming dot common, that's first module we're working on.
You could say that intelliJ has now created this module when we can open this up here.
You can say that we've got a source folder now.
Alight, so what we need to do here is think about how are we going to approach this because we've got in our
regular source folder we've actually got to the model which has got various classes there
They also got control in main which had to do with the interface and also the main dot xml
So how are we going to move all of these over?
Well what I decided to do which was one approach was move all classes into this model initially but
in the relevant packages and then later move those packages to the other modules as we create them in
future videos.
So in other words it's a two step process.
We're putting everything into this module temporarily but with the packaging and then later I will actually
move them as we create the other modules.
And just a confirmation of what we trying to do here on the screen.
You can see that so much is going to name here.
And that's going to be the same as Package time remembering that it's best practice to have the module
name and the package name to be the same on the image you can say that we've got three modules which
we've talked about previously put common DB and  UI will have at least some source code.
So in our scenario, you can say that again is a confirmation of artist and album.
Those classes are going into our common package common module in this case and the DB is going to
contain the data source class.
And again additionally we're going to be creating a package in this module for the DB code which is
the data source class and the UI will be our third package also in this module.
And that's going to contain the controller and main classes as well as the xml file involved.
Again I've said this a few times but eventually we'll move those other packages into the relevant modules.
Firstly you need to create those packages.
Let's go ahead and do that.
So click on the source the source folder in the new module that we've created.
New Package and the package is going to be the first one academy dot learn programming dot common.
It's decided by the time I was going to copy that first part, the first package will just go back.
Click on the source and do it again twice.
So if a DB is this time, then the third one new package is going to be UI.
Okay, so there's three packages.
So this point if you're following along you should have a similar structure at which you can see on
the screen here.
Now this can be a little bit confusing sometimes to look at.
You might want to select the option to hide empty middle packages.
Now that's the option.
You can click on this little gear icon on to see that the moment you can see that hide empty middle packages
is selected at the moment you can see academy dot learn programming on the same line.
If I select that you can it's move things down academy on its own.
Then we've got the subfolder learn programming and then we get the three common DB and UI
last parts of the package and then come back again if you want to click on compact and show it again
that way.
Personally I prefer to really hide the package but it's really up to you to which why you want to do
put it that way again or come back here and do it that way.
We're going to get back into that compact. Okay,
so I got these three packages now, common DB and UI,, what we want to do next is move the code from
this outsource file folder down here into each relevant package.
In other words one from the project root into the new module packages. So following what we saw in the
image let's move start moving things.
And what we're going to do is start with the classes that need to go into the common package and
that's album and artist.
So I'm gonna select both of those and just drag them into common, release and you can click on refactor
now, depending on your version of intelligence you may or may not see this but you'll probably find
you'll see in the ultimate edition isn't automatically fixes for you but in the community edition that
I'm running we're going to have to fix this later.
For now we're going to click on continue and we'll talk about this a little bit later on in this video.
The next one and how to resolve this.
Click on continue to move them.
All right so that's the first two.
So next we want to move the data source into the DB package would select that drag that into the DB
package recovery factor.
Got a similar error here about basically it's not going to be accessible.
Some reasons we're going to fix that shortly.
I click on continue and we moved that.
And now we want to come down here to the controller main andmain.xml, we will
to drag those three into our UI, go ahead and do the UI package.
So I do that now, click on okay,
I think that there weren't any problems doing that. So now we got here
basically an empty, so far we've got a simple module which is an empty project file, we just right
click that entire source folder and select delete because I actually moved everything. Okay, that's cleared
that up. So we're making progress here.
We've basically got all our code sitting in the common module stage so let's run it and see if we get
any errors.
So when I right click on the main class and right click and click on main up or run main dot main
and you can see what's popped up here is that this is the other thing you need to fix in the community
edition and you can see here clearly is looking for the old imports simple module dot and then whatever
the name of the class is.
So we need to go ahead and fix that in order to get this to compile and be able to work.
So what I'm going to do is actually delete those
and because I've enabled the auto sync of imports you can say it's automatically fixed those
for me, it's putting the relevant imports but if yours isn't your copy of intelligence is not configured
to do that you need to manually add these imports as you can see on screen now.
And if we run this again, run main dot main, we've still got an issue here.
And the issue now is in main dot java.
So go ahead and do the same thing there.
So lets go and do that, delete that, new import added so you can see there, we could've
just gone through and manually checked the code and done the relevant imports that would certainly have
worked as well but this is just another way of doing it, just running it and then fixing the errors just
to see them.
Now what we've got is another error.
And you can see the error we've got now is we can't connect to the database.
There's no suitable driver for jdbc colon sqlite colon mudic DB.
In other words it means that the module can't find the sqlite driver to connect to the database.
Now the reason why I can't find it is because we didn't add this java file,
our driver for the sqlite database, we didn't add it as a module dependency it is added as a project dependency.
But now the root project doesn't have any code and for that reason the dependency no longer does anything.
And it's not actually finding it here.
So what we need to do is go ahead and go into our project structure again and make a change to come
up here to file, click on project structure
click on module to the left hand side if it's not already selected.
we actually have two here,
academy dot learn programming dot common,
that's our new module and that hasn't got sqlite driver but get back to our regular project.
It has got to sqlite driver. When we're using modules,
It needs to be specified for that module.
So we're going to do is remove it here from main music UI start
I can just right click that and select remove rooted out of there and get back to our module which you
saw me open down to academy dot learn programming dot common
and what we can do is come down here to plus.
Now that might be in a different position I think on Windows it's on the right hand side but select
the plus and click on java or directories in any event.
Then you need to navigate to the new folder that we've put this project in into the libs folder.
You need to select the qlite driver, jdbc driver
Click on open and you can say that we've now assigned that to the module as dependency.
And the project module has a dependency for that.
So now if we click on ok. Let's try running it again, see if it made any progress.
And you could see that we are making progress but we still haven't got things to work.
So what I'm going to do is finish the video here and in the next one we're going to resolve this error
and move on and get to the stage of getting this application working and then we're going to start looking
at the module descriptor.
So see you in the next video.